Content Marketing Transcript
1. Content Marketing Explained
Hi and welcome to the Content Marketing Guide. I’m super excited to be teaching you all of the steps in order to get more audience to your website, more people to buy your products and services, to get more leads, to get more engagement with your posts on social media, on your blog posts, and so on.



Content marketing is a way for us to connect with an audience, to get an audience to trust us in order to buy products and services from us. This course is laid out just like this, step by step. First of all, we need to figure out our goals, our goals with our content marketing. Whether you are working for a corporation, you’re working for a smaller client, or you’re just working to improve your content marketing yourself, you need to have goals to be following.



After you have set these goals, we’re going to move on with research and more likely to go into market research basically to figure out who our audience is, where they’re hanging out, and where we should post the content so that we can get real results. Next stop, we are having to create these contents. We’re going to create videos, we’re going to create images and we are going to create text content.



Once we have created this awesome, valuable, engaging interaction able content, we’re then going to promote that content on the right platforms, which we have already figured out what platforms are working the best for our types of content. Once we have promoted these contents, we’re then going to move over to analyzing content that we have already promoted and post it to social media platforms, to our website or to a client’s website.



Because if we are analyzing what is working, if we can measure that and create more content that is working, we’re spending our time in the most effective way. After we have analyzed all the content that we have been creating, we are going to move over to goals. Once again, we are going to have a look that we are in line with all of the goals that we have set for the clients that we are working with or for ourselves in order to meet those goals over and over and over again.



So everything starts with goal setting, goes into researching, creating the content, promoting the content, and analyzing and measuring the results. Both me and Robyn are super excited to have you inside of this course. Let’s go over and start setting some goals. I’ll see you in the next video.



2. Choose Your Objective
Hi guys, and welcome to this video and to this course. I am super excited to be teaching you all about content and marketing. Now, inside of this video, we are going to dive into something called Choose Your Objective. Choosing your objective when you are working with clients or if you’re creating content for yourself is super important to do, basically choosing your goal. So there are a few things to think about here before we head in and start creating content—be it videos, Instagram posts, maybe blog posts, etc.—and that is what goal do we have with our content marketing?



So let’s dive into the different types of metrics that we have to look over before we’re doing just that. First off, we’re having business goals, then we’re having social media goals, and we’re having content goals. So let me break this down for you in a little bit more detail. Now, one business goal might be that you would like to grow the brand. So you’re working for a client, let’s say, and they are telling you, like, okay, with the social media or the content marketing that I would like you to do for me, I would like to make sure that you are growing my brand and to grow the brand you need to get awareness from current and also from potential new customers. Basically, you need to get their attention so that they understand what you are selling. If you are selling products, if they are selling maybe services or whatever it might be, but you would like to get awareness and attention from current and potential audience.



So the content goal must then be to get new subscribers to, for example, the newsletter maybe, or for that YouTube channel maybe to get new followers on Instagram and to get maybe more Facebook shares. So to grow the brand, you need to get attention from new audience and from an old audience to get subscribers, followers, and shares.



The next business goal might be to form relationships, so this is to get more engagement from current and from new audiences. So basically you would like to get interactions from new people and people that already know your brand to build trust. So this means that your content goal in this order would be to get likes, comments, and mentions. You know, those kind of mentions like if your sister doesn’t answer here on this Facebook post, within 5 minutes she has to buy you one kilo of candy, for example. You need to get engagements to form new relationships.



And then we’re having drive leads, of course. So this is to get our customers into the consideration phase. Basically, we would like to get the information from new potential customers. So this would mean to get more, more email sign-ups on their website, for example, to get more website clicks, to get video views so that we understand more of what our audience likes. And also, for example, that we can give away free stuff so that we can get their information like email addresses, phone numbers, contact information.



And then we’re having the last business goal, which would be to drive sales. Of course, now you need to get that conversion in order to drive sale, right? So therefore, we need to get results from your current and from potential customers. So the content goal would then be for you to get social media mentions, to get testimonials, and to get reviews basically for the new audience to see that the products and services that you are selling or that the company that you are working for are selling works that people like their product and their brand.



So basically before you are starting to work with any client or with content marketing for yourself, you need to determine your business goal and your business goals, goals in line with your social media goals and content goals. And of course, you will have this full template in the resources for this video. So you can just click in the resources for this video, download it and use this every time that you are starting to work with a new client. Or if you are creating content for your own business and for your own business purposes and well go to the resources. Download this in the sources, and I’ll see you in the next video.



3. Choose Your Platforms
Hi guys, and welcome back to the Content Marketing Course. Now, inside of this video, we are going to choose your platforms and we are going to choose your social media platforms, the platforms that you are going to post all of the content on for your audience, to attract new audience, to get them engaged, to get interactions, to get more sales and leads and all of that good stuff.



Now you have already went through the market research section and you also should be having this template that you can see on the screen right now. Download it to whatever device that you’re watching this course on. So you know exactly what business goal that you are having with your content marketing. And also, if you’re working with clients, their business goal, then you know exactly what social media goals you should have and also what content goal you should be having when you are posting things on social media platforms, on maybe their blog and so on.



So the next step is to determine what social media platforms that you should be using. And this heavily depends on the client that you’re working with or yourself or business that you’re running and what business goals that you’re having. So let’s pick some platforms.



So I would like you to pick a maximum of three different platforms. Now, why three different platforms? Well, if you are spending the vast majority of your time on the platforms that people are looking for, your content on, for your products on, from your services on, then you’re doing this correctly, just like Robin explained to us in the market research section of this course.



So this could include, for example, some of these platforms that you’re seeing popping up on the screen right now. Maybe Snapchat, maybe LinkedIn, Reddit, YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, Tumblr, Pinterest, WhatsApp or whatever. If you’ve done your market research, you should know this. If not, then go back to the market research section so you know exactly what platforms that would be most efficient for your clients and or maybe for yourself to be spending your time on.



Choose three platforms and download this in the resources for this video is click this link little up here. You can download this template so you have it with you all the time. I’ll see you in the next video.



4. Find Content ideas
Now that you have found the platforms that you want to focus on, it’s time to start finding content ideas so that in the upcoming lectures you can start creating that content, whether it is in image or video format. Now, being creative and coming up with ideas consistently isn’t something that just happens by itself for most people. So here are seven different ways to do it.



First, brainstorm. Start by identifying the main categories for your content and then get more specific with it. For example, if you are a personal trainer, that content could be about healthy recipes, healthy snacks, exercises in the gym, exercises at home, exercises on vacation, etc. And when you’ve brainstormed as many ideas as you possibly can, you’d like to choose all of those categories and go even deeper. For example, exercises at home could be crunches, sit-ups, push-ups, etc. If you can find ten main categories and then ten more specific ideas in each category, you’ll have 100 content ideas in no time.



Second, use user-generated content. If you’ve already got clients or at least hardcore fans, you could ask them to create testimonials and reviews or just questions for a Q&A. This is by far the most effective way to win over trust and increase conversions. Perfect for driving more sales. If you don’t have any audience yet, don’t worry about it. Simply move on to the third way, which leads us to number three.



Third, Notepad. Note down every little idea you get so you don’t lose it. You may have watched a YouTube video or came across a competitive Instagram post or something similar and got a fantastic idea from it. Don’t let that idea slip away. Write it down right away and then look at it later as something to create content on. This is a fantastic way to constantly stay in a creative mode. Make sure that you’ve got a note-taking program on your home screen of your phone for quick access.



Fourth, research trending topics. Use Google Trends, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube’s trending tab, TikTok with trending hashtags, etc. This way you and your brand are always up to date, which should help you not only with finding content ideas but also getting found on the platforms.



Fifth, repurpose content. Repurposing content means to create bits of content from your cornerstone content and spreading it out. For example, if you got a bigger blog post, you can take that text from that one and use that as a script for a YouTube video on a YouTube channel. You could take sections of that content and create new content on TikTok or Instagram as a short video or reel. Look at the content that you currently have and see if you can take bits and pieces to spread it out on additional platforms.



Sixth, comparison content. Compare products and services against each other to help your audience make decisions. This will save them time and if you do it right, gives you the opportunity to use affiliate marketing while establishing yourself as a professional within your field.



Seventh, curate content. Look at what your competitors are doing, especially the most successful content. Take it and start twisting and brainstorming on it to see how you can make it unique to you. Remember, this is all about doing something similar, not stealing.



There you have it, seven effective ways to generate content ideas. Make sure that you got at least one content idea before you progress to the next lecture. If you just take a little bit more of your time, you shouldn’t have any problems at all coming up with at least ten ideas and write them down. You’ll thank yourself for doing this.



In the next lecture, you’ll learn how to start creating effective content in a free tool called Canva. See you in the next lecture.



5. Content Formats Explained
Hi there, and welcome back to the course. Now, inside of this video, we’re going to answer the question about content formats, basically where to post, what kind of content. So the first thing is content. The second thing is where should we post it, right?



We’re having text content like blog posts, articles, etc., those types of content. Are we going to post on websites? It could be your client’s website, could be your website, or you could be referred to other websites, maybe newspapers, etc. But basically we’re keeping that on websites.



We’re having image contents like you can see here, this is a checklist, for example, and that are things that we are going to keep posting on social media. Then we’re having video content. Video content is something that you can post both on your website, maybe in a blog post. If you’re having text, you can have photos and then you can have a small explanation with your baby.



And also, of course, on social media like Instagram, YouTube, and all different types of social media. Now, this might be a no-brainer, but this is basically content formats explained basically what types of content that go where in the next section of this course or in this section of this course, we’re going to deep dive on what contents are really effective so that we can get some real results and how to create it.



So let’s dive into the next video. I’ll see you there.



6. Text Content
Hi, guys, and welcome back to the course. Now inside of this video, we are going to talk about the three most efficient text content types that you can be creating. First of all, you need to understand all of the metrics. The metrics is what type of content is it? What should you be thinking about when you are creating this type of content? When should you be creating it and why should you be creating it?



Okay, so let’s answer the first question. What type of content is it? The first thing is a blog post can look something like this. You can see we’re having images and we’re having texts. You can also, of course, include videos in your blog posts. But what a blog post is, is it’s a shorter piece of article. Mostly you are using between 300 to up to 1000 characters when you’re writing a blog post.



So what should you be thinking about? Well, the blog post should be easy to read using simple language so that everybody coming to your blog is understanding what they are reading. Don’t use complicated terms and complicated words and don’t go around things. Just write from your personal opinion because that is what you are going to do.



So when are you going to create this? When you would like to share your personal opinion. If you’re working with a company or a brand, then you should be understanding their values. You should understand their tone of voice, their brand identity, and what is important to them so that you can share their personal opinion.



Now, why should you be creating blog posts? Well, because you would like to build stronger relationships and stronger SEO. Basically, SEO is search engine optimization, which means that if you have optimized that content with keywords, basically the words that people are searching with on Google, then you will pop up in Google Search and more people will then find you.



The next piece of content is website articles can look something like this: “Hey, meet the teachers” and then you’re having a bunch of text. And what should you be thinking about when you are creating this? Well, it should be easy to believe now an article is longer than a blog post, so it can vary in length, but basically between 1000 and 2500 characters. So you need to include more information, maybe more statistics, and so on.



When should you be creating an article and write an article on your website, in a newspaper or on other websites to get traffic to your website? Well, when you would like to share, for example, an interview or research from credible experts. But here is the most important thing without your opinion.



So blog post is shorter pieces of article with your opinion or with the company’s opinion that you are writing for, to connect, to build relationships. While articles are to share interviews and research more in-depth information. Without your or the brand’s opinion, why should you be creating and writing articles? Well, because you would like to build credibility and trust people.



Trust people that know what they are talking about, like experts. For example, the third piece of content text content would be white papers. Now, what are white papers? Well, white papers can look something like this with multiple pages. It’s longer pieces of basically articles with more in-depth information and only write white papers if you are credible if you know exactly what you are talking about.



A white paper could, for example, be an in-depth, step-by-step guide on how to do a certain thing or a problem out in the world that needs to be solved and you know exactly. Or have the solution to the problem. Now, the next question is, what should a white paper be? A white paper should be easy to trust because you’re only writing this when you share a new solution to a problem or benefits of a product or service.



And you are credible, you are authorized enough to be writing this. Now, why is this important to create white papers? Well, because it builds trust and shows that you are a business leader, which is super important. So you can see that all of these three effective text content types are there for different types of reasons.



The first thing is a blog post is easy to read, share your personal opinion and build a relationship and stronger SEO. While website article is easy to believe, share interviews and research from credible experts without your opinion to build credibility and trust. And then we’re having white papers, which is more in-depth, longer pieces of articles.



They’re easy to trust, and they’re sharing a solution to a problem or a benefit of a product or service. Often includes metrics, numbers, statistics, and so on to build trust and show that you are a business leader so that people really trust you. Now you have this, of course, in the resources, this template, so you can take it, download it to your computer and know why, when, and what type of text content that you should be creating. I’ll see you in the next video.



7. Create Text Content
Hi, guys, and welcome back to the course. Now, I couldn’t just leave you with that PowerPoint presentation. I also have to give you a few resources in order to get that writing spirit going for you.



So first of all, we’re having a website that you’re looking on right now that is called Answer the Public. And in here you can get tons and tons of ideas that you can write either blog posts or articles about that people are searching for.



So if you’re going to this website and here you’re typing in whatever keyword, whatever word that you would like to write and blog, post, an article or a white paper about, then you can get tons of ideas. So let’s say that you’re working for a company or you’re selling them yourselves sweatshirts.



So here you can see use 1 to 2 words for better results. So I’m going to write in sweatshirts here, and then you can search. And as you can see also here, you can just sort out based on language and where you currently are. And it says enter a topic brand or product. And sweatshirts are the things that we are going to create content about. Let’s say click on search.



All right, then just scroll down. So here you will be presented with tons of data, basically what people are searching for. So here you can see when how y which will can wear what, who are. So if I’m just like scrolling in a little bit here, zooming in, you can see that our sweatshirts for winter, our sweatshirts good for summer are sweatshirts and hoodies.



This same thing are sweatshirts warm? Are are sweatshirts smart, casual. What this is, is basically questions that people are popping into Google and to other search engines and they are like a collection of different questions that people are having so that you can answer them with a blog post, with a social media post or anything in text.



So you can scroll through these pages, so you can see sweatshirts and here you can see can is for to basically questions around that preposition. So this website is very helpful. You can save image. So if you would like to save down this full image, you can click here, save image.



You can also go in here to data and here you can see all of the different terms a little bit easier instead of watching this visualization chart here. So if you’re going in here, you can see all of the questions and you can just click here to get the images of all of the questions.



Or you can basically just download a CSV file if you’re clicking here so you can get and document with all of the different questions and tons and tons of ideas for your blog posts, articles and white papers and so on.



The next resource that I would like to show you is perfect. If you are writing blog posts here we are having a template for you. You can download it in the resources of this video, which is brilliant of 30 blog post templates with explanations and 120 examples.



Now this could be applied for whatever topic you are writing about because as you can see here in the top, we’re having the top numbers like for example, the top ten sweatshirts you should be wearing this winter or this summer or whatever. Then you can start the contest.



How to get started with X, Y, and Z. The Ultimate Guide to prediction posts and so on. It’s amazing if you are scrolling through here, you’re having 16 pages of ideas that you can be using to create awesome blog content. We are calling this the Writer’s BLOCK Antidote List.



You can download in the resources. You will also have this answer the public page. In the resources of this video, you must have in mind that answer. The public is a website that can just change how it looks, but just type in your keyword here and click on search and you will get a ton of ideas.



Go ahead and download the resources in this video to your device and let’s move on in the course. I’ll see you in the next video.



8. Image Content
Hi, guys, and welcome back to the course. Now, inside of this video, we are going to go over effective image content that you can be creating, sharing on your social media or on the social media of the brands and companies that you are working with to get real results.



First, the metrics, the content, what you should be thinking about when you should be creating it and why you should be creating it.



First of all, let’s start off with the content. The first content type would be infographics. Looking something like this. You’re seeing colors, you’re seeing images, maybe you’re seeing logos and you’re seeing some explanatory text with the logos and with all the graphics.



So an infographic, if you are separating the word infographics, it stands for info graphics. So informative graphics. So instead of having maybe a just piece of text, you’re having some graphics and some pieces of text that are explaining maybe a subject or a way to go about certain things.



So what are they? They are easy to share. They should always be easy to share. So directly when somebody is seeing an infographic, they should be feeling like, okay, I want to share this with my friends. Maybe it’s helpful tips, maybe it’s something fun or something like that.



And in that way you can get exposure for your brand, which is awesome. So when should it be creating them? When you have some information that you would like to share in a fun and easy to consume manner. Maybe if you’re having a complex subject that you would like to share with potential audience or with your audience, but you feel like, okay, how can I do this more fun?



And so that they would like to share this and interact with this, then create an infographic. Why you should be doing this is to demonstrate your expertise and to build trust with a new audience. If you can demonstrate your expertise in a fun and easy to consume manner, more people will see this infographics.



More people would like to share them on social media and the business that you are working for or your own business is going to get more eyeballs on them, which is exactly what we are looking for with our content marketing.



Next content type would be checklist. Oh boy, this works so well. As you can see on the screen right now, it says My Healthy Meal Grocery List, but it can also be like how to get in shape in ten weeks. It could also be the best sweatshirts to wear a checklist for that.



So basically what this is, it could be lead magnets. It can get you more information like email addresses and so on, because people love checklists. So what are they? They should be easy to follow. So when should you be creating it? When you would like to share a step by step guide on how to do a certain thing, maybe what groceries that you should be shopping for may be how to go about exercises, maybe how to go about when you are looking for a new sweatshirt, or when you would like to maybe do a handstand or whatever it might be.



Why should you be creating checklists? Well, to boost engagements and increase sign ups, if you are sitting on great advice that you can then create and step by step guide on or and checklist of, and you can then say, hey, download this checklist. If you are giving your email address to me, I will send you this checklist.



Well, that should be an awesome transaction, right? You’re giving away a valuable checklist and you’re getting more email addresses or more phone numbers or more basically more information about potential customers. And it will also boost engagements. People love checklists.



The next type of content would be case studies. These are so effective. Basically what type of experience and client has had with your products or your services. So an example could be like this. This is Emily Jackson. This is a dictionary person. This is not for real.



But she had written How Safe a way helps me travel full time and I review, as you can see, a five star review. People can go into this social media post, for example, and read about her experience with a certain brand. This is so powerful in your content marketing strategy.



So a case study is easy to trust. It should be easy to trust. It should be a photo. It should be a review. It should be something that in this case, Emily has been written herself. When should you be using it? Well, when you would like to share a customer experience with a product or service of yours or the brand or company that you are working for.



Why should you be using it? Well, because it builds trust and get people to buy from you or the company that you are working with. Because if a person tells you that, okay, this product helped my skin to glow and removed all the pimples and all of that good stuff.



If I tell you that and you trust me, you are, then if you’re having bad skin yourself, you are then going to go most likely to buy and try this product out. And this is how powerful social media case studies can be as well. People trust other people’s opinion and that’s a fact.



So here are three different image content that you can be creating right away to get results for your business or for a business that you are working with in infographics, checklists and case studies. I’m going to show you exactly how you can create this within minutes in the next video. I’ll see you there.


9. Create Image Content
Hi, guys, and welcome back to the course. Now, inside of this video, I am going to show you exactly how you can create awesome images for social media within minutes. Let’s start.



First, log in or create an account on Canva.com. You have the link in the resources—click that link, and it will direct you to the website. Once logged in, either with Facebook, Google, or another email service, you can store your images, videos, and all your designs.



Look on the left-hand side, where it says “all your designs.” If I click there, you can see that me and Robin have heavily used Canva for the last few years to create everything from course thumbnails to social media posts, as shown.



In Canva, you can store all your designs and then tweak a few elements whenever needed.



If we go back to Canva’s homepage, it looks like this today. However, if you are watching this course a few months after this recording, it might look a bit different because Canva is always evolving its platform.



The “create a design” button remains constant. Clicking here allows you to customize the size of your posts. If you’re unsure about the size, you can skip this step and scroll down to the suggested sizes.



For example, if you want to create an Instagram post, click on the respective icon. You can see all the suggestions below. You’ll also find suggestions in the templates section. So, click on “Create a design” once you’ve set up your account, and then select “Instagram posts.”



Canva offers thousands of templates, many of which are free to use. Hovering over a template tells you if it’s free. If I click on one that isn’t free, you’ll see some elements highlighted, indicating they are premium elements that require payment to use. However, you can still use other elements within the template by removing the premium ones.



If you’re looking to create an Instagram post for your company or another company, scroll through the options on the left-hand side. There are categories like animated posts, love posts, food posts, etc., guiding you through the creation process.



For instance, if you select “animated posts” and click “See All,” then click on a random one, you might find an animated element that you can download without charge.



If you want to alter elements within the post, for example, changing the text to better fit a marketing campaign or adjusting the color scheme to match the brand’s colors, Canva allows this flexibility. You can also remove elements by clicking “Escape” or add new elements from Canva’s vast library.



This flexibility is crucial, especially when aiming to align the design with your or your client’s branding requirements. Moreover, Canva constantly updates its features and design, keeping the platform fresh and aligned with current design trends.



Now, once your design is ready, you can download it by selecting the desired format and clicking “Download.” You can also use Canva’s mobile app to create designs on the go, which is incredibly useful for quick edits or when you’re away from your desktop.



In summary, Canva.com is a powerful tool for creating professional-looking designs for social media posts, and I encourage you to explore its features and utilize the resources provided to enhance your content creation process. Remember to check the resources section for direct links and additional support. See you in the next video!



10. Video Content
Hi, guys, and welcome back to the course. Now, inside of this video, we are going to run over three of the most effective video types of content that you can create to get real results for your business or the business you are working with. We’ll cover the content, what it should be like, when you should create it, and why you should be creating it.



The first type of very effective video content is educational videos. These could be similar to what you’re watching right now. For example, “How to Make the Easiest Mocha Ever.” If you run a coffee shop and sell coffees, you can definitely create content like this to attract more customers. Educational videos should educate in a fun, easy way, and provide a step-by-step process on how to do something.



They should be easy to implement, offering a clear, step-by-step guide without leaving the audience with any questions. Avoid leaving out crucial steps that lead to a flood of questions in the comment section. You should create educational videos when you have valuable information that can be applied to everyday lives, showing your brand personality, and connecting with your audience on a personal level. This connection helps in demonstrating your expertise and gaining loyal followers who are more likely to purchase your products or services.



Next, we have product videos. These could be like the Kelty Linger High-Back Chair. It’s a foldable chair that the presenter demonstrates how to use, pack, and carry, making it fun and engaging to watch. Product videos should be easy to understand and serve as a step-by-step guide on how to use the product effectively. Create these videos when you want to explain the benefits of your product and show how it works. The goal is to increase conversions by making the video engaging and straightforward, helping potential customers see the need for your product.



Lastly, we discuss testimonial videos. These are incredibly powerful as they showcase real customers discussing their experiences with your brand, products, or services. A good testimonial video is genuine and trustworthy, featuring real people expressing their honest feedback about their experience without a scripted dialogue. Create these to build trust and credibility, which can significantly enhance conversion rates.



These video types are essential in different stages of your content marketing and customer journey strategies, helping to attract, educate, and convert your audience effectively. In the next video, we’ll explore easy tools and programs where you can create these video types quickly and efficiently. I’ll see you there!



11. Create Video Content
Hi, guys, and welcome back to the course. Now, inside this video, I’m going to show you how you can create videos for your social media and your website within minutes. This is great for creating valuable content for your audience and potential audience.



First, head over to Canva.com and log in with your account. Then, go to the top right corner, click on ‘Create a design,’ and scroll until you find the ‘Video’ option. With videos, you can create content for Instagram, Facebook, your website, or any other social media platforms.



Explore the different types of video templates available and pick one that suits your current needs. If you have a pre-recorded video you want to edit, perhaps to add some text or music, you can upload it by clicking the ‘Upload’ button, dragging your video in, and customizing it to your liking.



For a quick demonstration, I’ll use a free template from Canva. Some templates are free, while others may require payment. For example, if you select a template without a ‘free’ tag, you’ll need to pay to use it. However, there are plenty of free templates available that you can customize with text, colors, or even your brand logo.



Suppose you want to add a video to a template. You can play around with the elements—change the text, add colors, insert your logo, etc. If you want to include music, Canva provides a range of free music tracks that you can add to your video to enhance it.



Once you’re happy with your video, you can download it in MP4 format and it’s ready to be shared on your social media platforms or website. Canva also allows you to work on your projects from different devices, so you can start a design on your computer and finish it on your phone, which is incredibly convenient.



That’s it! You’ve now learned how to quickly create engaging and professional-looking videos for your social media and websites using Canva. Remember, videos are a powerful tool for connecting with your audience and enhancing your brand’s presence online.



In the next video, I’ll show you more tools and tips for maximizing your content creation efforts. I’ll see you there!



12. Content Marketing Guidelines
Hi there, and welcome back to the course. Now that we have gone over all different types of content you can create, including what is efficient content, what you should think about, when you should post it, and why you should post it, I want to give you the full content marketing guidelines so you know exactly why you are doing a certain thing.



First off, we have awareness. The goal here is to get attention from your current and potential audiences. The best types of content for building awareness include articles, blog posts, infographics, podcasts, how-to videos, and ebooks. If you feel like your brand isn’t getting enough attention, consider spending time creating how-to videos on YouTube to gain more followers and subscribers on your social media platforms, which can then be redirected to your website, products, and services.



Next up is engagement. The goal here is to get interactions from your current and potential audience. The best ways to drive engagement are through educational videos, white papers, worksheets, etc. This means creating content that prompts people to take action like liking, sharing, and engaging with your content, helping you spread your message and get to know your audience better.



Then we have the consideration phase, where the goal is to collect information from your potential audience. This can be effectively done by offering free trials, free online courses to get them to know you better, and case studies to show what people really say about your products or services.



Lastly, we have the conversion phase, where you aim to get results from your current and potential audiences. This typically involves them purchasing something. The best types of content for this phase include coupons, product demos, and tailored workshops that showcase the benefits and features of your products and services.



These content marketing guidelines are a template and are free for you to download. Just click the link in the resources, download these guidelines, and use them to guide your content creation based on whatever goals you or the company you are working with have with their content marketing strategy.



It’s free to download, so go to the resources, grab this guide, and I’ll see you in the next video.



13. Content Marketing Plan
Hi there, and welcome back to the course. I’m super excited for this video because I’ve created a customized template for you to create a content marketing plan for all your clients, customers, and your own content marketing strategy. This downloadable template, available in the resources for this video, allows you to plan content for the coming month. You can print this template and physically check off the types of content you plan to create.



Let’s dive right into it. The first element to determine is the name of the company or client, or if it’s for your use, simply label it as your awesome content marketing plan. Next, define the content marketing goal after discussing with your client or assessing your own needs. Fill in the month and year to keep track of your planning.



You’ll then list the type of content and the platforms you plan to use. For days that vary in number, adjust as necessary, though the template is set for 30 days to cover most months. Each cell will be filled with the content details you plan to execute.



Here’s a breakdown of how you might use the template:

1. Content Types and Platforms: Specify whether you’re creating blog posts, videos, or social media content, and identify which platform each content piece will be posted on.

2. Monthly Layout: Each day or week can be planned out to ensure consistent content delivery. This could include scheduling tutorial videos on YouTube early in the week and blog posts later.

3. Content Goals: Whether driving traffic to a website or increasing engagement on social media, define clear objectives for each content piece.



For example, if a company is launching a product on the 18th of a month, you might start releasing educational videos on social media from the 14th to build anticipation.



This plan not only looks professional when working with clients but also ensures you have full control over your content schedule. It’s designed to align the content release closely with business goals and product launches.



So, head over to the resources section, download this free template, and start planning your or your client’s content marketing effectively. Meet me in the next video to continue enhancing your content marketing skills.



14. Measure Results
Hi there, and welcome back to the course. In this video, we’ll explore how to measure the results of your blog posts and articles on your or your client’s website. We’ll also look into analyzing content performance on social media platforms to determine where to focus your efforts and how to enhance content that you’ve already created.



Let’s dive into the first step: using Google Analytics for websites. If you manage a client’s website or your own, it’s essential to connect it to Google Analytics. This platform might look a bit complex if you’re not familiar with it, much like how coding appears to someone who doesn’t code. Once logged in, you can navigate to your website’s analytics overview to see metrics such as user activity over the past few days or customize the view to the last 28 days or any period of your choice.



Here’s how to navigate the insights:

1. Traffic Sources: Down the analytics page, you’ll see where your traffic comes from, like social media, direct entries, or referrals. This helps in understanding which channels are effectively driving traffic to your site.

2. Content Popularity: The most crucial aspect for content marketers is located further down the page where it lists the pages your users visit the most. By clicking on the ‘Page Report’ you can see details like page views, and gauge the popularity of specific articles or blog posts.

3. Engagement Metrics: Observe metrics such as average time on page to understand user engagement level. High engagement on specific pages indicates content relevance and effectiveness, guiding you to produce similar content.

4. Social Media Analysis: For social media platforms like YouTube, log into your account and access the YouTube Studio. Here, you can view comprehensive analytics like video performance, watch times, and engagement levels. These insights are crucial in understanding what types of videos hold your audience’s interest the most.

5. Adjusting Content Strategy: By analyzing which content performs best, whether on your website or social media, you can tailor your future content to match audience preferences, thereby increasing engagement and effectiveness of your marketing efforts.

6. Using Feedback for Improvement: Analytics not only show what is working but also highlight what isn’t. This feedback is invaluable for continuous improvement of your content strategy.



By the end of this tutorial, you should be able to navigate through Google Analytics and social media analytics tools to extract meaningful data that informs your content strategy. This will empower you to make data-driven decisions to enhance your content marketing efforts and achieve better results.



Thank you for watching, and I’ll see you in the next video!